Change idle_timeout to max_idle_timeout (#3099)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

## Idle Timeout {#idle-timeout}

If the idle timeout is enabled by either peer, a connection is silently closed
and its state is discarded when it remains idle for longer than the

> max_idle_timeout (see {{transport-parameter-definitions}}) and three times the

Reviewer: This sentence seems to contradict the next paragraph: The connection is closed when it remains idle for longer than the minimum of the max_idle_timeouts.

current Probe Timeout (PTO).

Each endpoint advertises a max_idle_timeout, but the effective value
at an endpoint is computed as the minimum of the two advertised values. By announcing

> a max_idle_timeout, an endpoint commits to initiating an immediate close

Reviewer 2: > a max_idle_timeout, an endpoint declares that after being idle for longer than the advertised time it will not send any packets and it could generate a stateless reset ({{stateless-reset}}) in reaction to any received packet.  An endpoint commits to initiating an immediate close [...]

## Idle Timeout {#idle-timeout}

If the idle timeout is enabled by either peer, a connection is silently closed
and its state is discarded when it remains idle for longer than the minimum of
the max_idle_timeouts (see {{transport-parameter-definitions}}) and three times
the current Probe Timeout (PTO).

Each endpoint advertises a max_idle_timeout, but the effective value
at an endpoint is computed as the minimum of the two advertised values. By
announcing a max_idle_timeout, an endpoint commits to initiating an immediate
close ({{immediate-close}}) if it abandons the connection prior to the effective
value.

An endpoint restarts any timer it maintains when a packet from its peer is

> received and processed successfully.  The timer is also restarted when sending

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
received and processed successfully.  The idle timer is also restarted when sending
```

an ack-eliciting packet (see {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}), but only if no other
ack-eliciting packets have been sent since last receiving a packet.  Restarting
when sending packets ensures that connections do not prematurely time out when
initiating new activity.

An endpoint that sends packets near the end of the idle timeout period
risks having those packets discarded if its peer enters the draining state
before the packets arrive.  If a peer could time out within a Probe Timeout
(PTO; see Section 6.2.2 of {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}), it is advisable to test for

> liveness before sending any data that cannot be retried safely.  Note that it

Reviewer 3: What does it mean to test for liveness? Can you make this more explicit?

## Idle Timeout {#idle-timeout}

If the idle timeout is enabled by either peer, a connection is silently closed

> and the state is discarded when it remains idle for longer than the max

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and the state is discarded when it remains idle for longer than the
```

> idle timeout (see {{transport-parameter-definitions}}) and three times the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
max_idle_timeout (see {{transport-parameter-definitions}}) and three times the
```

current Probe Timeout (PTO).

> Each endpoint advertises a different max idle timeout, but the effective value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each endpoint advertises a different max_idle_timeout, but the effective value
```

> Each endpoint advertises a different max_idle_timeout, but the effective value

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each endpoint advertises a max_idle_timeout, but the effective value
```

is determined by taking the minimum of the two advertised values. By announcing

> a max idle timeout, endpoints commit to initiating an immediate close

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a max_idle_timeout, endpoints commit to initiating an immediate close
```

> is determined by taking the minimum of the two advertised values. By announcing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
at an endpoint is computed as the minimum of the two advertised values. By announcing
```

> a max_idle_timeout, endpoints commit to initiating an immediate close

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a max_idle_timeout, an endpoint commits to initiating an immediate close
```

> ({{immediate-close}}) if it abandons a connection prior to the effective value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
({{immediate-close}}) if it abandons the connection prior to the effective value.
```

> ({{immediate-close}}) if it abandons a connection prior to the effective value.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand this sentence... what does it mean for an endpoint to initiate an immediate close if it abandons the connection prior to the min? I thought that the endpoint was to initiate an immediate close _at_ the min. Why are we talking about abandoning?

> An endpoint restarts any timer it maintains when a packet from its peer is

Reviewer 3: Do you mean an idle timeout timer? I would say that explicitly. Maybe even give it a name - ITO?

Author: The text from here down is pre-existing, so I'd prefer not to change it as part of this PR.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that we need new names.  New names are best when you need to refer to them in many places, but idle timeout logic is all constrained to this one section.

Reviewer 3: It's a new timeout. It's not covered by any existing timeouts, so calling it out explicitly avoids use of generic language below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An endpoint restarts its idle timer when a packet from its peer is
```

received and processed successfully.  The timer is also restarted when sending
a packet containing frames other than ACK or PADDING (an ack-eliciting packet;
see {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}), but only if no other ack-eliciting packets have been
sent since last receiving a packet.  Restarting when sending packets ensures

> that connections do not prematurely time out when initiating new activity.

Reviewer 4: If you're going to explain why you restart when sending, you might need to explain why you _don't_ restart when sending subsequent packets.  Perhaps "when sending _one or more_ packets" might help point this explanation at bursts, rather than at individual packets?

Author: Also pre-existing.

> sent since last receiving a packet.  Restarting when sending packets ensures

Reviewer 3: Can you write some rationale for these restarting rules?

Author: Also pre-existing text, so maybe in a different PR?

> An endpoint that sends packets near the end of its peer's idle timeout period

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An endpoint that sends packets near the end of the idle timeout period
```

risks having those packets discarded if its peer enters the draining state

> before the packets arrive.  If a peer could time out within an Probe Timeout

Reviewer 3: This is not a great construction: "If a peer could time out within a Probe Timeout".  It's also confusing ... maybe change this to "When an endpoint is about to send data that cannot be retried safely, it is possible that the peer may have reached the end of its idle timeout period before this data arrives at the peer. To avoid such situations, it is recommended that an endpoint test for liveness when it expects that the peer might be close, within a Probe Timeout (PTO; see Section ...) period for instance, to the end of its idle timeout period."

Author: Agreed, I'll file an issue to address your and Mike's comments.

Reviewer 3: I think the text should be fixed here... why introduce text here and then fix it in a new PR?

Author: I'm not introducing this text, it just moved, hence the different PR, which is editorial.

since last receiving a packet.  Restarting when sending packets ensures that
connections do not prematurely time out when initiating new activity.

Each endpoint can advertise a different idle timeout value. An idle timeout
indicates the connection will be abandoned when the timer ends or soon

> afterwards.  If a peer advertises a smaller idle timeout value than the

Reviewer 2: Each endpoint advertises a different idle timeout, but the effective value is determined by taking the minimum of the two advertised values.  By announcing an idle timeout, endpoints commit to initiating an immediate close ({{immediate-close}}) if it abandons a connection prior to the effective value.

local endpoint, the local endpoint MAY choose to idle timeout after the
shorter period advertised by the peer.  By announcing an idle timeout,
an endpoint commits to initiating an immediate close ({{immediate-close}})
if it abandons a connection prior to both its peers and its own idle timeout

> expiring.

Author: It's committing to explicitly closing(and not silently closing) if it's before min(local_timeout, remote_timeout).  This was adapted from MT's PR.

  server MUST include the original_connection_id transport parameter if it sent
  a Retry packet.

max_idle_timeout (0x0001):

: The max idle timeout is a value in milliseconds that is encoded as an integer;
  see ({{idle-timeout}}).  Idle timeout is disabled when this parameter is

>   absent or zero on both sides.

Reviewer 3: Rephrase -- not both sides, but when the parameter is advertized as zero by both endpoints.

>   timeout is disabled unless the peer specifies a max idle timeout.

Reviewer 5: Maybe rephrase to: "Idle timeout is disabled when this parameter is absent or zero on both sides"?

Author: Thanks!

  Retry packet (see {{packet-retry}}).  A server MUST include the
  original_connection_id transport parameter if it sent a Retry packet.

max_idle_timeout (0x0001):

: The max idle timeout is a value in milliseconds that is encoded as an integer;
  see ({{idle-timeout}}).  Idle timeout is disabled when both endpoints omit this

>   transport parameteter or specify a value of 0.

Reviewer: In its current wording, this would mean that if one of the endpoints omits the parameter or sets it to 0, the resulting idle timeout would be 0 (since we're taking the minimum of both values).

Reviewer 2: I think that we should not interpret 0→∞.  I would prefer that we omit a value when there is none and assign the value an infinite value (or 2^62-1 if you prefer) as a default.

Author: SG, I'm going to no longer make the default 0.

of packets and poor performance.

A connection will time out if no packets are sent or received for a period

> longer than the time specified in the max_idle_timeout transport parameter

Reviewer 5: s/specified in/negotiated by using/?
